
# Entrance Exam

## Entrance Test

### Course Pre test

(20 points possible)  

#### Instructions**
  
To be successful in this course, you need to already have a good grasp
of the fundamental concepts of DHIS2.

Whether you completed the DHIS2 Fundamentals online course or not,
please answer the following questions to assess your basic knowledge on
the platform. This will help to make sure you are ready to make the most
of this course.

To enable the contents of the modules, you need to score 70% or more in
this pre-test (in other words, have at least 14 out of 20 questions
answered correctly). You will have unlimited attempts to pass this
entrance exam.

In case you are not familiar yet with the key concepts of the platform,
we strongly recommend you to complete DHIS2 Fundamentals online course
as a prerequisite for this one.  
Read carefully all the questions and select the "Check" button to submit
your test.

#### Questions

1. An organization unit refers to:

   - The variable we are measuring (the what dimension)  
   - **The geographical units attached to our data (the where dimension)**  
   - The time in which our data was recorded (the when dimension)- This
    answer is unanswered.

    Explanation

    Organization units represent the where dimension in DHIS2. They associate any data that we have entered with a specific location. This could be a facility, district, state, province, region, country, etc. Organization units are context specific, and are based on where the DHIS2 implementation is collecting data from.

2. In DHIS2, data elements and indicators represent the same concept

   - True  
   - **False**

    Explanation

    Data elements and indicators represent different concepts. Data elements are the raw data, while indicators are calculated values that use data elements within their calculation.

3. Pivot Tables in DHIS2 is mainly used for:

   - Visualizing data in charts
   - **Analyzing data in dynamic tables**  
   - Creating standard, one-click reports for review

    Explanation

    As the name implies, pivot tables are used to review data in dynamic tables. They are dynamic because their layout can be altered very quickly and new inputs can be added to alter the data that is being reviewed at any time.

4. In DHIS2, I can add additional dimensions (such as Male/Female,
Public/Private Facilities, etc.) to further break-down my data during
analysis.

   - **True**
   - False

    Explanation

    Data can be broken down into different disaggregations in analysis. This is a key part of data review in order to review data at a more granular level.

5. Metadata refers to:

   - The data values that have been entered by users in a DHIS2 system  
   - **The information that defines what is in a DHIS2 system (which variables to collect, indicators to calculate, geography, etc.)**  
   - Manuals and procedures that are used to guide a DHIS2 system’s use

    Explanation

    Metadata comprises all of the various objects that are added to a DHIS2 system. DHIS2 by default does not come with any metadata. This must all be set up by the team implementing DHIS2.
6. If I want to create a new data element, where do I go in DHIS2?

   - **Maintenance app**  
   - Data administration app  
   - Data management app
  
    Explanation

    Data elements, along with any other object that needs to be added to DHIS2, is all managed through the maintenance app. It is used heavily in order to customize a DHIS2 system.

7. Which of the following are data elements

   - **Number of maternal deaths**  
   - Maternal Mortality Ratio (per 100,000)  
   - Maternal Deaths (% from total deaths)

    Explanation

    Data elements are the raw data values that we collect, such as source “number of” type variables. Calculated values such as ratios and percentages are considered indicators.

8. If today's date is April 2, 2020 and I select a relative period of
the last 5 years in one of the analysis apps, which periods will be
displayed in my output? Select one:

   - 2016-2020  
   - **2015-2019**
   - 2014-2019

    Explanation

    Relative periods work backwards from the current date. In 2020, if we go back 5 years we have 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. The current period will not be selected unless we specify it to be included in our output through selecting a relevant period such as “This year.”

9. In a map, multiple layers can be added to represent different
features or items for analysis

   - **True**  
   - False

    Explanation

    Multiple layers representing different items can be added to maps. We might have one layer of data representing information from facilities, and another layer aggregated to represent districts for example.

10. The main function of Data Sets in DHIS2 is to:

    - Create dynamic outputs  
    - Group together data elements for analysis  
    - **Capture Data**

    Explanation

    Data Sets are used to capture data from different sources in DHIS2. Data sets collect different data elements together in order to allow users to input aggregate data into DHIS2.

11. Data Element Groups are used for grouping together similar data
elements for hematic analysis

    - **True**
    - False

    Explanation

    Data element groups are user defined and assist us in finding our data elements during analysis. They are particularly useful in an integrated system, as they allow us to separate our data elements by thematic area.

12. What is the primary role of a DHIS2 dashboard?

    - **Make data more accessible and communicate findings to users** 
    - Manage operational lists and actions that a user needs to follow up
    on  
    - Act as the primary method to access different applications within
    DHIS2

    Explanation

    Dashboards are useful in conveying a variety of different information together. They are particularly useful for users that are not trained on making their own outputs or when a number of standard outputs needs to be reviewed routinely.

13. Reports in DHIS2 can be the combination of data from several
different data sources

    - **True**
    - False

    Explanation

    You can make reports pulling data from a variety of different services within your DHIS2 system. This includes specific services, for example health or education services, as well as demographic data, like population, for example. 


14. In DHIS2, what is a validation rule?

    - A check which indicates if data has been submitted  
    - **An expression that checks if data is correct (for example, malaria tests >= malaria cases positive)**
    - A check which indicates if data has been submitted on time

    Explanation

    Validation rules are logical expressions that are defined by the user. They check data that is available in the system against the criteria that has been defined with the created expressions. When these rules are violated, there are various ways these violations can be brought to the attention of the user. 

15. Data Element names should:

    - Be as long and descriptive as possible  
    - **Use self-contained names which describe the data effectively for output**  
    - Replicate the name on a paper/source form

    Explanation

    When discussing data elements, we should always consider how they will appear in output. Making concise names that can be easily listed will make finding them easier and will group them together appropriately when searching for them in lists. We can always make their appearance during data entry match a paper form even when naming the data element appropriately.

16. What is the Organisation Unit that is being analyzed in the above
pivot table?

    - MAL - Malaria inpatient admissions  
    - **Trainingland**  
    - June 2019 - May 2020

    Explanation

    The organisation unit is Trainingland. This means all the data that we are seeing is being aggregated for the organisation unit that has been selected.

17. The map above

    - Has a layer showing where individual facilities are located  
    - Has a layer showing the individual home location of children that
    received their BCG vaccine  
    - **Has a layer showing indicator information by the selected
    geographical level**

    Explanation

    What we see is a thematic layer that is being used to display indicator information. There are many different layer types that are available when making maps in DHIS2; making a quick evaluation of the most appropriate one is necessary when working with maps.

18. In the above chart, which month has the highest malaria test
positivity rate?

    - March 2020  
    - November 2019  
    - **May 2020**
    Explanation

    The blue line in this chart represents the malaria test positivity rate based on the legend at the bottom of the chart. If we follow this line, we can see the highest value is shown in May 2020.

19. The above screenshot is taken from when you create a data element
within DHIS2. What does the star next to the field name “Domain Type”
mean?

    - I can skip filling in this field when creating the data element  
    - I can fill this field in by selecting an item from a drop down list

    - **I must fill this field in when I create the data element**

Explanation

Stars in DHIS2 maintenance always denote mandatory, required fields that need to be filled in. 

20. The above screenshot is taken from a data entry screen within
DHIS2. When I have an internet connection and the background of a value
is green, as we see above, what does this mean?

    - The value has been stored locally within my computer  
    - The value has not been stored and I need to hit the save button  
    - **The value has been stored online**

    Explanation
    In DHIS2, as values are entered, they are automatically saved online when you have internet connectivity. This is indicated by the green coloured background that appears after entering data values. There is no save button as a result of this feature.

CHECK YOUR ANSWER

# Module 1: Course Overview & Getting Started

## 1.0 - Getting Started

### Pre-course Survey

#### Complete our Pre-Course Survey

Tell the DHIS2 Academy team more about yourself by filling out our
pre-course survey below. The information you provide will help us to
make useful updates to this course and create more effective training
material in the future.

Pre-Course Survey: DHIS2 Events Fundamentals

Your responses to this survey will help the DHIS2 Academy team improve
our course offerings by providing valuable insight into our Academy
audience. Whether you are just browsing or you are determined to
complete the entire course, the more we know about you, the better we
can serve all participants in this course.

By submitting this form you give DHIS2/HISP UiO permission to use your
anonymized responses in research, research publications, and
DHIS2-related communications materials. We appreciate your input!

**Why did you enroll in this course?**

_Applies to me_         x _Does not apply to me_

To advance my career

To advance my education

To qualify for more advanced DHIS2 training

Interest in the subject matter

**How important is learning the contents of this course to you?**

Not at all important

A little important

Moderately important

Very important

Extremely important

**How many hours do you intend to spend on this course each week? Please enter a whole number**

**Which statement best describes your goals for taking this course?**

Explore the course contents to see if I'm interested

Explore a particular module or content of the course

Gain knowledge to apply it on a specific DHIS2 project

Qualify for more advanced DHIS2 training

To deliver DHIS2 training to others

Other…

Apply knowledge to a specific DHIS2 task

**Could you briefly describe your current work with DHIS2? (What type of
project(s) you work on, how the project uses DHIS2, whether is uses
aggregate or individual data, what your role is)**

**For what purpose have you most commonly used DHIS2?**

To enter aggregate data

To enter individual-level data (Tracker or Event)

To create data visualizations (graphs, charts, tables, maps)

To analyze data

To submit reports

To manage or evaluate projects

To make data-driven decisions

To configure the DHIS2 system

To export data to other systems

To give DHIS2 training to others

Other…

#### Knowledge of Data Analysis and DHIS2

**How familiar are you with data analysis?**

On a scale of 1 to 10, what level of theoretical-practical knowledge do
you have on Data analysis? (1= Little to no knowledge; 10= Full
practitioner)

**How familiar are you with DHIS2?**

On a scale of 1 to 10, what level of theoretical-practical knowledge do you have on DHIS2? (1= Little to no knowledge; 10= Full practitioner)

**Do you intend to earn a certificate in this course?**

Yes

No

Unsure

#### Demographic Data

**What is your gender?**

Female

Male

Prefer not to say / Other

**What is your age?**

0-14 years

15-29 years

30-44 years

45-59 years

60-74 years

75+

Prefer not to say

**What is your highest level of education?**

None

Primary school

Secondary / High School

Some college / university

Bachelors degree

Masters degree

Ph.D. - Doctorate

**What is your primary language?**

English

French

Portuguese

Spanish

Russian

Arabic

Chinese

Hindi

Indonesian

Urdu

Vietnamese

Other

**How would you describe your English language skills?**

Weak

Basic

Intermediate

Proficient

Fluent

**In which country do you live?**

Afghanistan

Albania

Algeria

American Samoa

Andorra

Angola

Anguilla

Antigua and Barbuda

Argentina

Armenia

Aruba

Australia

Austria

Azerbaijan

Bahamas

Bahrain

Bangladesh

Barbados

Belarus

Belgium

Belize

Benin

Bermuda

Bhutan

Bolivia

Bosnia and Herzegovina

Botswana

Brazil

British Virgin Islands

Brunei

Bulgaria

Burkina Faso

Burundi

Cambodia

Cameroon

Canada

Cape Verde

Caribbean Netherlands

Cayman Islands

Central African Republic

Chad

Chile

China

Colombia

Comoros

Congo

Cook Islands

Costa Rica

Croatia

Cuba

Curaçao

Cyprus

Czech Republic

Denmark

Djibouti

Dominica

Dominican Republic

DR Congo

East Timor

Ecuador

Egypt

El Salvador

Equatorial Guinea

Eritrea

Estonia

Eswatini

Ethiopia

F.S. Micronesia

Falkland Islands

Faroe Islands

Fiji

Finland

France

French Guiana

French Polynesia

Gabon

Gambia

Georgia

Germany

Ghana

Gibraltar

United Kingdom

Greece

Greenland

Grenada

Guadeloupe

Guam

Guatemala

Guernsey and Jersey

Guinea

Guinea-Bissau

Guyana

Haiti

Honduras

Hong Kong

Hungary

Iceland

India

Indonesia

Iran

Iraq

Ireland

Isle of Man

Israel

Italy

Ivory Coast

Jamaica

Japan

Jordan

Kazakhstan

Kenya

Kiribati

Kuwait

Kyrgyzstan

Laos

Latvia

Lebanon

Lesotho

Liberia

Libya

Liechtenstein

Lithuania

Luxembourg

Macau

Madagascar

Malawi

Malaysia

Maldives

Mali

Malta

Marshall Islands

Martinique

Mauritania

Mauritius

Mayotte

Mexico

Moldova

Monaco

Mongolia

Montenegro

Montserrat

Morocco

Mozambique

Myanmar

Namibia

Nauru

Nepal

Netherlands

New Caledonia

New Zealand

Nicaragua

Niger

Nigeria

Niue

North Korea

North Macedonia

Northern Mariana Islands

Norway

Oman

Pakistan

Palau

Palestine

Panama

Papua New Guinea

Paraguay

Peru

Philippines

Poland

Portugal

Puerto Rico

Qatar

Réunion

Romania

Russia

Rwanda

Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha

Saint Kitts and Nevis

Saint Lucia

Saint Pierre and Miquelon

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Samoa

San Marino

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabia

Senegal

Serbia

Seychelles

Sierra Leone

Singapore

Sint Maarten

Slovakia

Slovenia

Solomon Islands

Somalia

South Africa

South Korea

South Sudan

Spain

Sri Lanka

Sudan

Suriname

Sweden

Switzerland

Syria

Taiwan

Tajikistan

Tanzania

Thailand

Togo

Tokelau

Tonga

Trinidad and Tobago

Tunisia

Turkey

Turkmenistan

Turks and Caicos Islands

Tuvalu

U.S. Virgin Islands

Uganda

Ukraine

United Arab Emirates

United States

Uruguay

Uzbekistan

Vanuatu

Vatican City

Venezuela

Vietnam

Wallis and Futuna

Western Sahara

Yemen

Zambia

Zimbabwe

**What is your current employment status?**

Employed

Unemployed

Student

Retired

Other…

**What kind of organization do your work for?**

Ministry of Health

Other government agency

International organization

NGO / Charitable organization

University / Research institute

Consultant / Private company

Other…

**What is your job title?**

#### Online learning experience

**How many online courses have you completed before?**

5+

3-4

1-2

0

**Do you have any challenges (technological or otherwise) that may make it difficult for you to complete this online course?**

**Is there anything else you would like to share with us?**

**Enter your email address (optional)**

### Getting started

#### Welcome

Welcome to the DHIS2 Event Fundamentals online course and thank you for
joining us!

If you are new to OpenEdX, we recommend you review how to navigate the
platform by viewing the video demonstrations below; these videos will
show you how to navigate and use OpenEdX during this course.

After you have reviewed these demonstrations, please start the course by
accessing module 1.1 - Event Fundamentals Course Overview.

**NOTE:** This course is still in the **beta testing phase**, which means that there might be some cosmetic changes in the coming weeks but nothing that should affect your learning experience. In the beta testing phase, you are able to go through the whole course and finish all activities and graded assignments, but there will be a delay of up to several weeks before we are able to generate your certificate. This means that if you go through the course very fast, you might need to wait some time until your certificate appears on the “Progress” page.

#### Video - Getting Started Demonstration [Part 1 of 3]

Video Download [Part 1 of 3]

Download this video (Low/High)

#### Video - Getting Started Demonstration [Part 2 of 3]

#### Video - Getting Started Demonstration [Part 3 of 3]

#### GUIDELINES

Please download the guidelines for navigating OpenEdX [[here]](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://studio.academy.dhis2.org/asset-v1:HISP%2BD2EVENTS100%2BQ2_2020%2Btype@asset%2Bblock@Navigating_OpenEdX.pdf&sa=D&ust=1605291870171000&usg=AOvVaw2kMaNSqf7omz6ASlYEsD2P)

#### NEED HELP

For any questions feel free to send an email to  events-fundamentals-support@dhis2.org

## 1.1 - Event Fundamentals Course Overview

### Presentation - Prerequisites & Review of DHIS2 Data Models & Terminology

#### Video - Event Fundamentals Course Overview Presentation [Part 1 of 2]

#### PREREQUISITES

In order to take part in this course, you must have:

- Either completed the DHIS2 Fundamentals course (available in the
    catalogue of online courses) and received your certificate;
- Or, if you have not taken the DHIS2 Fundamentals course,
    demonstrated relevant experience/knowledge in the fundamentals by
    taking our screening test.

### Presentation - Course Objectives & Modules, Certification Process, & Getting Help

#### Video - Event Fundamentals Course Overview Presentation [Part 2 of 2]

#### Course Outline - Download

[You can download the detailed course outline here.](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://studio.academy.dhis2.org/assets/courseware/23f5e1cb85cedb360ebc51072e32fbb9/asset-v1:HISP%2BD2EVENTS100%2BQ2_2020%2Btype@asset%2Bblock/Course_Outline.pdf&sa=D&ust=1605291870174000&usg=AOvVaw2G5xtzABBExV9lp0IJwlzI)

## 1.2 - Practical Information

### System Requirements & Course Information

#### Course Information

##### System Requirements

In order to provide hands-on practice in using DHIS2, we have created
several DHIS2 training systems for use in this course when performing
both ungraded activities as well as graded assignments. Please see unit
1.4 - Training Environment for additional details on these training
systems. Instructions for signing up for these training systems are
provided in:

- Module 3, Subsection 3.0
- Module 4, Subsection 4.0
- Module 5, Subsection 5.0

Please consult these for additional detail as you go through the course.

To properly use the DHIS2 training systems in this course we recommend
the use of either Chrome, Firefox or Chromium-based Edge as your web
browser. We do not recommend Internet Explorer, as it will not provide
you with full functionality of DHIS2.

In **Module 3, Section 2** you will require an Android device in order to take part in non-graded activities using the DHIS2 Android app. If you do not have an Android device, you will still be able to complete the course; however, you will be unable to try to the Android-based activities. You can find a list of requirements and links to download
the Android App at the [Install DHIS2 Android App](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.dhis2.org/app-store%23requirements&sa=D&ust=1605291870176000&usg=AOvVaw0wRsavUSpEMyXz2SdWfZzc) web page.

##### Viewing the Video Demonstrations

In order to get the best experience viewing the video demonstrations, we
recommend having at least a 500 kilobit per second (Kbps) internet
connection. This will enable you to access a standard definition view.
You’ll be able to view the videos at 720p definition with a 2.5 Megabit
per second (Mbps) connection, and 1080p at 4Mbps.

You can check your internet speed [here](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://fast.com/&sa=D&ust=1605291870177000&usg=AOvVaw0GN4e1ueMSodmC2r05aMZW).

##### Course Content

Each topic is presented in the form of several videos of approximately 5
to 10 minutes in length. Watch them at your leisure, download them to
save them for later, participate in the discussions, and see how much
you’ve learned by taking the assignments afterwards. The estimated time
for completing this course is approximately 25 hours. A full breakdown
of estimated time commitment by module is available within the [course
outline](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://studio.academy.dhis2.org/assets/courseware/23f5e1cb85cedb360ebc51072e32fbb9/asset-v1:HISP%2BD2EVENTS100%2BQ2_2020%2Btype@asset%2Bblock/Course_Outline.pdf&sa=D&ust=1605291870177000&usg=AOvVaw0uxiaovzbrtLE97L-neUbv).
This is an estimate and it may take you more or less time depending on
your background.

##### Grading Policy

The core philosophy of this course is "learning by doing.” You must
complete all of the graded activities and assignments where indicated to
pass the course and earn your certificate. A more detailed overview of
the activities and assignments is provided at the beginning of each
module; while a full breakdown of how much each assignment contributes
to your overall grade is provided in the [course
outline](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://studio.academy.dhis2.org/assets/courseware/23f5e1cb85cedb360ebc51072e32fbb9/asset-v1:HISP%2BD2EVENTS100%2BQ2_2020%2Btype@asset%2Bblock/Course_Outline.pdf&sa=D&ust=1605291870178000&usg=AOvVaw1W1Hkh17rfXCipm0KILNu8).

##### Timeline

### Discussion Forum, Support & General Forum Guidelines

#### Discussion Forum, Support & General Forum Guidelines

##### Discussion Forum

The Discussion Forum is a section of the course where learners have the
opportunity to communicate with other learners and course staff. We
highly encourage you to participate in these forums to learn from peers
and have discussions on course material.

##### Support

If you encounter any issues, please share! Ideally through the [Discussion Forum](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://academy.dhis2.org/courses/course-v1:HISP%2BD2EVENTS100%2BQ2_2020/discussion/forum&sa=D&ust=1605291870179000&usg=AOvVaw3BDKfUk296XWkkhzmV719Z).
Moderators and other course participants can help advise on solutions.
Moderators aim to address any issues flagged in the discussion forum within one working day.

Alternatively, you can send us an email at events-fundamentals-support@dhis2.org. We will do our best to answer in a timely manner. However, please do try consulting the [Discussion Forum](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://academy.dhis2.org/courses/course-v1:HISP%2BD2EVENTS100%2BQ2_2020/discussion/forum&sa=D&ust=1605291870180000&usg=AOvVaw23LNUyMDwAlAkAaIpC9pGl) as a resource first, as it is very useful to gain knowledge and insight from other learners (and it may be quicker too)!

##### Support Email for Technical Issues

For technical support, we recommend the use of the support email
events-fundamentals-support@dhis2.org.

##### General Forum Guidelines

Please ensure you post in the correct section. The forum has sections
devoted to the various course modules and topics, as well as a dedicated
area where you can post any technical issue you may be experiencing.

You can “upvote” posts. This means that you can give posts more priority
by “voting” them “up.” Posts with the most upvotes are likely to get the
most attention from the staff and from your fellow students. This
process will help both staff and peers understand what is valued by
those participating in the course which may further be used to tailor
the course to your needs.

Please be polite to your fellow students. We want to build a positive,
encouraging community!

Please search before posting to ensure that your question has not
already been answered.

Know when to use the “report misuse” flag. We hope that nobody ever has
to use this option, however, if you believe that a post is harassing or
wholly inappropriate, please use it! This flags the post to course
staff so they can take action. Our staff will not tolerate harassment of
any nature, including, but not limited to, harassment based on race,
origin, ethnicity, religion, disability, gender, sex, gender identity or
sexual orientation. Please refrain from using the “report misuse” flag
simply because you judge a post to be unimportant, incorrect, or poorly
thought out. This is an incorrect way to use the flagging mechanism.

Aside from the information listed, there are no silly questions and
invalid opinions. Please feel free to post anything you feel is relevant
in relation to your learning process or that of your peers, and make
others feel free to do the same.

## 1.3 - it´s Your Turn

### It's Your Turn

#### It's your turn

#### Introduce Yourself on the Discussion Forum

Now that you are ready to being the Events Fundamentals course, we
invite you to introduce yourself to your fellow learners and course
staff on the course [Discussion Forum](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://academy.dhis2.org/courses/course-v1:HISP%2BD2EVENTS100%2BQ2_2020/discussion/forum&sa=D&ust=1605291870183000&usg=AOvVaw1Mfd9NyBSoHzlPNdFPtU2H). We would love to hear about your background and experience with DHIS2, which country you are based in, and how you hope to use the knowledge you gain from this course in your work.

To view live discussions, click Preview or View Live in Unit
Settings.Discussion ID: 6a07a5b7e8d94f398ea49a3bc0dfff5630e647c9

## 1.4 - Overview of the Training Environment

### Demonstration - Overview of Training Environment [Part 1 of 2]

#### Video - Overview of Training Environment Demonstration [Part 1 of 2]

### Demonstration - Overview of Training Environment [Part 2 of 2]

#### Video - Overview of Training Environment Demonstration [Part 2 of 2]

## Feedback - Course Overview & Getting Started

### Survey

#### Feedback - Course Overview & Getting Started

Please take 2 or 3 minutes to complete this feedback survey once you are
done with the Module 1. Your careful response will have a real impact on
how courses like this are run. Thank you!

#### Module 1 Feedback: DHIS2 Events Fundamentals

This survey will help us to improve the DHIS2 Events Fundamentals online
course. This survey is anonymous.

**How would you rate the quality of these sessions?**

Excellent/Very Good/Good/Fair/Poor

**Is there any course material in these sessions that is broken, incomplete, or confusing? (Please include session/part number if appropriate)**

**Do you have any comments or feedback to share with us? (Please include session/part number if appropriate)**

Share your email address (optional)
